---
layout: page
---

<img class="centerpic" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/btskinner_2.jpg"
style="width: 300px;"/> 

I am an assistant professor of higher education and policy with an
affiliation in the Institute of Higher Education at the University of
Florida.

My research interests center on college access, the outcomes of
college participation, and using tools of data science such as machine
learning and Bayesian statistics to critically examine higher
education policy questions that are difficult to answer with
conventional econometric tools.

In my work I have examined how students weigh factors like [distance
and cost](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11162-018-9507-1)
when choosing a college and the effect of college participation on
both [economic
outcomes](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0272775715300303)
and
[civic](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/00221546.2017.1291258)
[behaviors](https://www.btskinner.io/repository/skinner2021civicii.pdf). I have also used
poststratification techniques to improve the representativeness of
survey responses among [former students who exited
early](https://doi.org/10.1177/23328584211065724) and to produce
state-level estimates of [low-income college
enrollment](https://ssrn.com/abstract=3054231) using
non-representative data. I have a particular interest in students'
access to broadband: how it varies across [student
populations](https://www.edworkingpapers.com/ai22-667), its connection
to [past housing policy](https://www.edworkingpapers.com/ai21-471),
and its relationship to [online course
enrollments](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11162-018-9539-6). See
my [publications](https://www.btskinner.io/publications/) and [working
papers](https://www.btskinner.io/working/) pages for a complete list
of my papers and my [GitHub profile](https://github.com/btskinner) for
links to replication files for many of my projects.

I am the author and maintainer of a number of software packages,
including [rscorecard](https://www.btskinner.io/rscorecard/), which
can be used to download data from the [College
Scorecard](https://collegescorecard.ed.gov);
[crosswalkr](https://www.btskinner.io/crosswalkr/), a port of a [set
of Stata commands](https://github.com/slhudson/rename-and-encode) that
help build primary data sets from smaller files in a reproducible
manner; [duawranglr](https://www.btskinner.io/duawranglr), a set of
functions to help users create shareable data sets from protected data
files according to a data use agreement; and [GitRoom
Manager](https://www.btskinner.io/grm/), a program that allows
instructors to more easily manage a GitHub-based virtual classroom
from the command line. Other small scripts that I share can be found
on my [code page](https://www.btskinner.io/code/).

I earned my doctorate in leadership and policy studies from Vanderbilt
University in 2017, master’s in the humanities from the University of
Chicago in 2008, and bachelor’s in music and English from Vanderbilt
in 2006.

