README.md, before:

# Personal website

Code for my personal website at [btskinner.io](https://btskinner.io).

## Steps to update / publish site

Below are the steps I use to update and publish my site. Since I want
a dynamic site that incorporates, for example, javascript
visualizations, it's a little more complicated than just pushing to
the main branch. This is the solution I cobbled together using tips
from others who've had the same issues. I started this site a few
years ago and it's possible that there are better solutions now, but
this works for me.

1. Have two branches: *source* and *main*
   - *source* holds the core files used to build the site
   - *main* holds the built website files / serves the site
2. When updating, make local changes on my machine in the *source*
   branch
   - use `./_fixbib.sh ./bibliography/<my_citation_bib_file>.bib` to clean up
     personal `bib` file so that it plays more nicely with
     [`jekyll-scholar`](https://github.com/inukshuk/jekyll-scholar). *This
     may no longer be necessary, but I had trouble in the past with
     Jekyll not properly parsing braces when building citations*.
3. Build and test the site locally using `build exec jekyll serve` in
   the command line
   - **NB** Some links to external repos may not work locally
   - The built site, which is dynamic, now lives in `_site` in the
     *source* branch.
4. Once happy with changes, `add`, `commit`, and `push` changes to remote
   *source* branch at GitHub
5. Run `./_publishwebsite.sh` script  
   - Script is mostly these commands [from
here](https://github.com/randymorris/randymorris.github.com) with a
few changes:
	```shell
	#!/bin/bash
	
    git branch -D main
	git checkout -b main
	git filter-branch --subdirectory-filter _site/ -f
	git reflog expire --expire=now --all
	git gc --prune=now
	git checkout source
	git push --all origin
	```
   - The gist is that the *main* branch is fully deleted and only
   files from `_site` are placed in it. Since GitHub isn't coverting
   `.md` files but instead reads `.html` and other files directly, all
   dynamic features coming from javascript should work (that is, they
   aren't scrubbed during a conversion process). 

Over time, the process to rebuild the *main* branch can take a while
since you are filtering through all the changes in *source*. If you
don't need a full record of your website changes over time, it may
make sense to prune or make a shallow clone of your source code every
now and again to speed up `./_publishwebsite`.

Commit message:

returning to master since that's required by github atm

README.md, after:

# Personal website

Code for my personal website at [btskinner.io](https://btskinner.io).

## Steps to update / publish site

Below are the steps I use to update and publish my site. Since I want
a dynamic site that incorporates, for example, javascript
visualizations, it's a little more complicated than just pushing to
the master branch. This is the solution I cobbled together using tips
from others who've had the same issues. I started this site a few
years ago and it's possible that there are better solutions now, but
this works for me.

1. Have two branches: *source* and *master*
   - *source* holds the core files used to build the site
   - *master* holds the built website files / serves the site
2. When updating, make local changes on my machine in the *source*
   branch
   - use `./_fixbib.sh ./bibliography/<my_citation_bib_file>.bib` to clean up
     personal `bib` file so that it plays more nicely with
     [`jekyll-scholar`](https://github.com/inukshuk/jekyll-scholar). *This
     may no longer be necessary, but I had trouble in the past with
     Jekyll not properly parsing braces when building citations*.
3. Build and test the site locally using `build exec jekyll serve` in
   the command line
   - **NB** Some links to external repos may not work locally
   - The built site, which is dynamic, now lives in `_site` in the
     *source* branch.
4. Once happy with changes, `add`, `commit`, and `push` changes to remote
   *source* branch at GitHub
5. Run `./_publishwebsite.sh` script  
   - Script is mostly these commands [from
here](https://github.com/randymorris/randymorris.github.com) with a
few changes:
	```shell
	#!/bin/bash
	
    git branch -D master
	git checkout -b master
	git filter-branch --subdirectory-filter _site/ -f
	git reflog expire --expire=now --all
	git gc --prune=now
	git checkout source
	git push --all origin
	```
   - The gist is that the *master* branch is fully deleted and only
   files from `_site` are placed in it. Since GitHub isn't coverting
   `.md` files but instead reads `.html` and other files directly, all
   dynamic features coming from javascript should work (that is, they
   aren't scrubbed during a conversion process). 

Over time, the process to rebuild the *master* branch can take a while
since you are filtering through all the changes in *source*. If you
don't need a full record of your website changes over time, it may
make sense to prune or make a shallow clone of your source code every
now and again to speed up `./_publishwebsite`.
